The Notices and Disclaimers for Ocean Worlds Autonomy Testbed for Exploration
Research and Simulation can be found in README.md in the root directory of
this repository.

IRG Gazebo plugins
==================================
IRG Celestial Body Plugin
-------------------
This is a model plugin that can only be use within a Gazebo `<model>` tag like this:

```
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<sdf version='1.6'>
    
  <model name="irg_sun">
    <!-- This pose will be overridden by IRGCelestialBodyPlugin. -->
    <pose>0 0 0  0 0 0</pose>
    <static>0</static>
    <link name='ellipsoid'>
      <gravity>0</gravity>
      <visual name="visual">
        <cast_shadows>false</cast_shadows>
        <geometry>
          <sphere>
            <radius>1</radius>
          </sphere>
        </geometry>
        <material>
          <script>
            <uri>model://irg_sun/materials/scripts</uri>
            <name>irg/sun</name>
          </script>
        </material>
      </visual>
      <light name='sun' type='directional'>
        <cast_shadows>1</cast_shadows>
        <direction>1 0 0</direction>
        <diffuse>1 1 1 1</diffuse>
        <specular>1 1 1 1</specular>
      </light>
    </link>
    <plugin name="CelestialBody" filename="libIRGCelestialBodyPlugin.so">
      <frame>sun</frame>
      <radius>696392000</radius>
      <render_distance>160000</render_distance>
      <light_source>true</light_source>
    </plugin>
  </model>

</sdf>
```

#### XML tags
 - `<frame>` - (required) Specify the frame to lookup in the tf-tree and apply to this model.
 - `<radius>` - (required) Specify the actual radius of this body, the same radius used in your model file.
 - `<render_distance>` - (required) Distance from origin to render this body. Use a value within your far clipping plane.
 - `<light_source>` - (optional) If true, ignore ephemeris rotation and rotate so light points toward origin.

#### Explanation
This plugin can be used to position a model in the sky using a given frame and
parameters set on the plugin. The given frame can be generated by an ephemeris
model, such as `irg_planetary_ephemeris`, and must be defined relative to
`celestial_body_origin`. You will probably want something like this in your
launch file to integrate this frame into your scene:
```
  <node name="site_to_celestial_body_origin" pkg="tf" type="static_transform_publisher"
    args="0 0 0 0 0 0 site_frame celestial_body_origin 1000" />
  <node name="celestial_body_origin_to_moon" pkg="tf" type="static_transform_publisher"
    args="0 0 0 1.570796327 0 0 celestial_body_origin moon 1000" />
```
The "moon" frame in that example would be the reference frame in your
`irg_planetary_ephemeris` config file.

We don't attach the model directly to this frame because the position of a
celestial body (in meters) would be far outside of a reasonable OpenGL far clip
plane, making the model invisible. Instead, we use the transform to this frame
and parameters set on the plugin to transform and scale the model so it lies
within the far clipping plane and covers the correct amount of visual angle when
viewed from near the origin of the scene.

You might think we could make a modified frame to hold our model. Suppose your
ephemeris model output a `jupiter` frame and we created a `jupiter_within_far_clip`
frame to hold our model. This doesn't work because the tf-tree does not support
scaling, only translation and rotation. Since we already need to scale our
model explicitly, we handle its pose the same way for consistency.

If the param `<light_source>` is set to true, the rotation will be set to affect
the light direction instead of affecting the celestial body's rotation. The
direction of the light source in the .sdf file must be (1, 0, 0). Set this to
true for the sun or other stars.

Models that use this plugin can be found in `irg_open/irg_planetary_ephemeris/models/`

#### To-do
There is no mechanism to set this plugin's params in a launch script or at
runtime. They can only be set where they are hardcoded in model files. It would
be possible to set them with global params in ROS1, but ROS2 has no global
parameter server. It would be good to add this flexibility after ROS2 has some
way of doing this, such as a global or namespaced parameter server.

